Paper 1: "Systematic Search for Recipes to Generate Induced Pluripotent Stem Cells"

Inhalt:

The focus of this paper is a newly developed method of systematically evaluating different approaches to iPSC generation and how efficient they are. 
It strives to improve their quality for the purpose of facilitating their use in regenerative medicine and disease modeling.

Currently, one of the problems with induced pluripotent stem cell transduction lies in the huge number of combinations of the factors that lead to the
conversion from one cell type to another. Additionally, the biological systems are much more intricate than the mathematical models can account for. 

Their first step was constructing a genetic network for pluripotency regulation and human embryonic stem cell (hESC) differentiation. 
The landscape network was estimated by applying the Monte Carlo Markov Chain (MCMC) method and the dynamic Bayesian network (DBN) model. 
The way they evaluated how successful a model was by comparing the expression levels of the predicted cell states with the hESCs. 
The measurement was based on the root mean square deviation 
(RMSD) and the Pearson (r = 0.67) and Spearman rank correlation coefficients. 



Paper 2: "From Chemically to Physically Induced Pluripotency in Stem Cell"

Inhalt:

The main topic of this paper revolves around the alternatives of generating iPSCs via the introduction of transcription factors (TFs) and hence the reduction
of the probability for tumorigenicity. 

The first option is the chemically iPSCs (CiPSCs). They are induced by adding small-molecule compounds in the cell which interact with the pluripotency 
genes Oct4, Sox2, Nanog, Sall4, Sox17, Gata4, and Gata6, potentially changing their biochemical conformation and enhancing their expression.

Another possibility is the physically iPSCs (PiPSC). A very important factor here is the torsion transition which is dependent on the temperature, pH, 
volume and shape of the coherent domain.

As a whole, both alternatives are largely based on quantum theory. However, the authors imply that the physical model could be more than 150 folds 
more effective than the chemical reprogramming method.